---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

## Discussing (Finding a Project to Contribute)[https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#finding-a-project-to-contribute-to]

Of the links listed in Section 004 of the article, there were a few that did give me ideas for what I want to work on. Github Explore was something I was not aware of, and all of the first 5 projects I saw seemed to be open source (fit the criteria specified in previous weeks).  

Open Source Friday and first timers only, were not very intuitive to navigate through and I didn't quite like the interfaces or that it required signing up. I didn't get much from those sites.

Code Triage was quite interesting. Even without signing up like the other two I could see a list of projects with a name, description,  and amount of issues next to it. Not to mention I had seen a project, youtube-dl that I have used briefly before in a personal project. I wasn't fully aware it was open source so that would be one idea. The only thing I'm not too keen about is that some of the items on the list are forks of the same project. I'm not sure if that is a good thing or not but I would prefer to see the original project first. I'll be returning to this 

24pullrequests seemed to be a seasonal thing and there weren't many recommendations (just 3 featured projects, one of which I heard of, Cake, C# Make) or even much useful tips. I liked the interface though, and perhaps when it's time there will be projects listed to work on, so I bookmarked it too.

up-for-grabs.net had quite a few but I browsed about a dozen and nothing really stuck to me much. Most of them were barebones projects with few contributers if at all, and few issues. They weren't something I could consider really contributing except outside of class. Some were interesting like simple games made in Javascript.

## In class Project

Learning more about the pull request workflow was interesting and it seems intuitive after going through the class activity. That is, making forks of the repositories, creating a branch for a new feature, pulling from the upstream for changes and reconciling conflicts, and finally pushing commits to the fork and creating a pull request. It is very organized and allows for a good separation of the original source code and user's modifications which I can see as very good for maintainability. git commands I learned were mainly related to the upstream, specifically "git pull upstream master". That is, pulling from the upstream's master branch into your fork's master branch, allowing your fork sync up with the source. I didn't know how to do this before, but it makes complete sense, and I appreciate how easy it is to update forks. Overall, a very good experience, although didn't quite finish the very last part of the very last step until after class, I still got the idea of how pull requests work. I think with pull requests, it would be very hard to manage outside of a very small team, which I have actually done before on github (contribute to a repository by having one person maintain all the commits without any forking, it even got messy by the end as expected).
  


