---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

## In regards to github-activity-01

It was very a straightforward assignment to show that conflicts do occur when there are multiple people pushing to the same remote branch at one time, and how to solve them (basic conflicts). I was somewhat familiar beforehand about merge conflicts but I had not seen it when working on the same remote branch. It wasn't confusing and it did help me understand conflicts some more. That is, I had seen something I haven't yet and it was resolving a conflict and pushing it only to see the changes that were made "reverted" by someone else's push. Likely, what happened was that they pulled an older commit in the branch and resolved conflicts using that information, thus when they pushed their commit, it "overwrote" what I had pushed with that older commit's information. More specifically, I had used a full name in the Readme in the older commit and then removed a last name in a newer commit to test pushing commits, and the contributor that pushed their commit must have used the full name in the older commit when they resolved their own conflicts.  

There was plenty of time to finish the activity, even if it takes some more time to constantly pull and then push minor commits to the same remote branch everyone is working on at the same time and resolving conflict after conflict. Also, the link for the open source music provided in the instructions had some issues with it's search so I had to look for another site (musopen.org) and make sure it was open source (all music is public domain there). Quick minor tangent, the site specifies that legally it is not so simple to determine what is public domain or not but it explained why the music they host and is available for download is public domain. However, I wasn't actually able to finish the last step which was forking the branch to my own github account even though I had finished the other steps a while before class ended. Apparently I was able to fork and clone any other branch that is **not** a github activity repository on the organization's account, so it was not an issue of permissions. I was also able to fork and clone other account's repositories. What I found was that clicking on my account after the fork prompt page redirects to the same url with an incremented number at the end (github-activity-02) which 404s. I was not able to solve this even after class, and I might just try to contact github somehow as this has never happened to me before.  

## Regards to (Free Code Camp's Article by Shubheksha)[https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39/]

The author mentions that it is difficult to start contributions to open source projects and that it is intimidating to learn the work flow. I don't think that's entirely true, at least for me because I had used github to collaborate on a project with other classmates for another class before. What I would say is a challenge, and quite a challenge for some repositories, is understanding how the program works so that issues can be solved and perhaps the program even be improved with features and such. Some projects just have so many moving parts I would be rather hesitant to work on something that could introduce bugs elsewhere especially if it wasn't already modularized. I would not mind my requests for merging to be rejected but I would not want introduce new bugs or issues into the programs. I agree with the author though it is important to acquire all the relevant information before working on any issue.  

## Regards to (New Relic's article by Andy Lester)[https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/open-source-contribution/]

A lot of what the author mentioned seems logical and simple but like the kinds of things that are easy to forget while actually doing it. 
Particularly, this point the author made,
*4. Considerate of all users, not just the contributor* 
Stuck out for me because it mentions that anyone else reading and contributing, and even just end users should be able to understand your changes and have it make sense for them. It can be easy to forget while working on changes, for example, changing the way a program sorts some data that reflects on some view in a GUI. When the end users see that the way they sorted their data is completely changed despite them not doing anything, it can be quite frustrating for them. Instead, it would be a better idea to introduce it as an option and make it a new feature than a "fix".

