---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## Reasons I took this Course

The first reason I took this course was to cover an elective. I took this elective over others because I wanted something more geared towards actual software development and collaboration in groups as opposed to something more theory focused and hands off (such as studying arbitrary rules for specific textbook problems than solving problems with code). There weren't many courses like this but there were one or two. Why I didn't take those instead was because I felt like learning those subjects at my own pace, such as Android development, and thus would like to learn about something I would have much more difficulty doing on my own (hence open source). Another few reasons I took this course was because I wanted to gain experience in a software development course as well as learning more about collaborating on open source projects I alraedy use. There are several programs I would love to include certain features and perhaps have other people join in on the development as well. I find that it is much better to have second opinions, and third opinions on code you have developed in order to improve and create better code. Even when discussing these projects with people with far less experience can provide very insightful hints on how to solve problems you thought you couldn't solve before or new methods of vastly improving programs to workable speeds.

### Addditional Details

There are various desktop applications I use that I have not realized may or are open source projects, as well as various libraries I may have used within my own projects. One such example of an application that I want to know more about and may be open source is ShareX, as I use that frequently to take screen captures of certain resolutions and quality. One library I used that may be open source is FFMPEG, that I have used to encode videos through a python interface. 

Also, I want to learn more about open source licenses. There were times when I had considered selling some software as a service that used open source licenses, and did not proceed for reasons including that I was not entirely sure what I could and could not do with the program (share some parts of the source code, or having to share all of it, or only being able to dyamically link certain modules and so on). Namely, one of the those projects included using Qt frameworks which had some LGPL licenses and I was not exactly sure what I could or not do with the code, and therefore I did not proceed with it. Had I known more I would have considered proceeding further and perhaps even making that project open source itself but instead I have left it in the deep caverns of one of my hard drives.

I'm not quite sure if I would make every project I have created open source (if there were enough people interested of course as just having public code on github with a license isn't open source), but I sure would like to learn more about how it could benefit my projects to do so. 