---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## Projects I'm Interested In

###1) ShareX  

This was a project I was only recently aware that was open source, but that I have been using for over a year now. I am very interested in contributing to this project because I am familiar with how it works, do know some C#, and want to fix bugs that I have encountered as well. Having looked at the github repository where the code is maintained a few times, I've seen that there is plenty of activity such as pull requests from various contributers that are accepted and merged into the project. There are also plenty of issues to work on, several hundred, so there's no shortage of work there. It seems that there are responses within a week or month of pull requests and issues being opened, even if not by maintainers but others contributers, and it has stayed that way for a long time already so it's quite mature. I think that's very good. The only thing that worried me is the complexity of the project. I had not realized it was such a huge project, but that is mainly because I am used to desktop applications written in python, where a lot of the verbosity is traded for readability but also more subtle bugs due to the ambiguity of how python works. Overall though, this is still a 10/10 project that I want to work on and haven't changed my mind about yet.

###2) Tornado   

Having created a websites using Tornado, I'm actually quite interested in it as well. Being just about all made in Python, I feel like I could easily contribute to such a project. This one is hosted on github as well, and the community seems to be active, however, I didn't see a lot of merges although there are plenty of issues and pull requests that do happen. And the community seems to respond with a few days so it's quite good. The complexity of the project is perhaps less than ShareX, but there are still many files with hundreds and some with thousands of lines of code, so even if it's in python there's still a lot to learn and study before being able to work on this project, and thus my worries for this one are the same as ShareX. This project is something I want to work on as well, but I use ShareX a lot more myself, and I may learn more about C#, contributing, and thinking about open source in general with a more difficult project, so it's something for me to think about. Overall a 9/10 project that I would want to have worked on for sure if not for ShareX.

###3) Flask  

This is a python framework for creating websites like Tornado but even more lightweight. I have familiarity with this one as well, and I learned a lot about web development by using and modifying this project for my own needs before. It's also hosted on github, and quite a similar community to Tornado in that pull requests are looked at within a few days, there just aren't many updates pushed to the repository aside from documentation lately it seems. Perhaps the people working on open pull requests are doing something big with those, it seems like that could be the case. Between this and Tornado, I would prefer to work on Tornado because that's what I would use for all my sites from now on given how powerful it is due to the async nature of the framework, however, Flask would be much easier to make changes to. Now whether they would be accepted and merged beyond documentation issues, I would not be so confident but that would be about the same with Tornado anyway. So if I do find something better about contributing to Flask than Tornado, then I would definitely consider this instead. An 8/10 project for me.  

Others, well, there are still plenty of projects for me to look at and consider still, I just wanted to list those projects that I am really looking at and definitely considering working on for sure first.

## On Karen Sandler

Before her talk, I wasn't aware how directly vital open source programs could be to a person's well-being. That is, I mainly thought about open source as a way to share and work with code with other people around the world together in the easiest and simplest way possible, and that some projects may or may not benefit from being open source. For example, some proprietary work that could be misused should stay closed source, or so I thought. But really thinking about it, I couldn't come up with many, if at all, good examples of such things unless it was code that should absolutely not be seen by anyone besides the creators. The most I could think of was perhaps a company's work that could be copied by competitors. If that company was an individual, a sole proprietor, there would only be so much they could do against a company that decided to use their works to create a closed source product and possibly put them out of business. Of course, there's legal issues and you can't do those things but companies do it anyway, and as mentioned in the same talk. It's something for me to still think about, however, beyond that, I don't see see much if any disadvantages to making everything open source.  

Specifically, when the discussion moved towards how election software is closed source, I had a sort of epiphany and thought, of course that makes sense that it should and has to be open source. And I then thought how strange it was that it's not open source, from the software that tabulates the votes, to the network that sends the data over to the private companies that aggregate that data, and so on. I have to agree, that this is such an important thing that it should all be made open to the public.

Anyhow, something that really struck me about how important programs being open source should be was what Karen said, about OpenAPS, the open source diabetes framework for a certain subset of older diabetes pumps that allowed full control for its users. I not only thought it was a really awesome thing that people formed a community to use improve some vital software, that until then people had no control of, but also that it was strong example that people can be trusted to regulate their own equipment. And that having closed source equipment for such vital things is only a huge setback for everyone's well-being in general, as it doesn't just apply to those with diabetes, but everyone, as per Karen herself mentioned with her defibrillator turning on without her input. Which by the way is a very frightening though, and honestly something I wouldn't think about myself unless I encountered such issues with vital hardware myself. I can definitely say that from now, I think many, many programs and software should be made open source for sure.
