---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

## In regards to the "Things You Should Know About Open Source" Article
[https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it] (Link to Things You Should Know About Open Source)

I have been aware of the most of the points in this article, especially item #2 **"It's not always free"**, pointing out open source software may be monetized. One such example that they didn't list would be MariaDB, from whom MariaDB Corporation provides pricing options for enterprise versions and support whilst the community version.

For item #4, **"You have full access to the source code"**, they bring up a good point that many users do not need to even look at the source code of open source programs, and that it is there if they need it. Many open source programs come with installers or even already compiled in specific builds for systems with even one line/one button installations. This is how many users, myself included, end up not being aware that they are even using open source software.

The rest I already had an idea about before the class. Now for what I didn't know much about,

For item #6, **"You aren't breaking any laws by adopting open source"**, I wasn't aware open source might be breaking any laws. I just figured since there were licenses there would be little issues in regards to actually breaking laws, at least in the US. It's good to know that it isn't breaking any laws though.

It's not like I didn't learn from it, I did learn something I didn't know, simply stating what I already had an idea about (and I did learn more about it as I read as per the above). Here is something that is new to me though,

Item #9, **Freeware and shareware are not the same as open source**, I thought these terms had something to do with open source, and it turns out the relationship is that it is not open source, go figure. Freeware sand shareware have to do with whether its distributed free of cost but it doesn't mean the source is open and if it's not, its absolutely not open source software. That was good to know!

 