---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

### What types of contributions do you think are suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project? 

I believe it depends on the scale of the project, how large the community is, and the ease of creating pull requests and having them be accepted back into the project. If it is a very complex, larger project, with many moving parts, it may be best to work on something that does not require changes to the source code and instead perhaps documentation, missing assets, or translations and such things like those.

If I were to contribute to say, something mostly implemented in python and even full stack applications for the web, then I would be more comfortable contributing to changes in the source code directly to address issues or bugs. But if possible, I would like to work contributing to new features as that is what I would probably enjoy the most and even benefit from myself than bugs for programs I use that I am okay with or don't even notice.

### What types of projects interest you and how do you see your relationship to them?

Projects in programs that I frequently use such as ShareX. I would like to work on new features or options branches and have them approved and possibly have other people join on making said features better or stable, rather than working on bug fixes or outstanding issues (for the most part). Basically, I would like to be one of the developers if possible rather than a team lead/manager, or community rep.

I still have a lot to learn about git and even github so perhaps that may change as I learn more about how collaboration on open source projects work, especially on the feature development side. So far I have only worked on very small scale projects in groups with 5 or less people so it will be very interesting if I could somehow do the same for the projects I'm interested in. 